---
layout: post
title: "SRM-418"
description:
category: Algorithm
tags: [SRM, Algorithm]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
###Description###
250-points:   
As a serious strategy-games player, you decided to solve one of the most common problems - attacking your opponents's guard towers.

Before the attack, you've got **myUnits** soldiers. Each soldier in a single round inflicts 1 hit point of damage to one of the towers. Your opponent doesn't have any soldiers. However, he's got **numT** towers with **hpT** hit points each. Each tower kills **attackT** of your soldiers per round.

500-points:  
Yesterday, when you were passing by the newsstand near your home, you saw an advertisement for lottery games. The advertisement said "Choose **m** different numbers between 1 and **n**, inclusive. We will also randomly pick **m** different numbers between 1 and **n**, inclusive, and if you have at least **k** numbers in common with us, you win!".

You want to know the probability of winning this lottery game. You are given three integers **n**, **m**, and **k** as described above. Return the probability of winning the game.

1000-points:

###Algorithm###
250-points:    
First, we should kill as more towers as we can per round, we'll have more soldiers in this case. So, every round let **hpT** soldiers inflict the same tower, not **hpT** different towers. With this stratege, we procedure it until there don't have any towers any more, or we don't have any soldiers any more. If we don't have any soldiers any more, we fall.

500-points:   
This is a combinatorial problem. Suppose the lottery company has choosed **n** numbers. we calculate the probability, you choose **n** numbers and there are at least **k** numbers same with the company's numbers.   
First, you choose i(>=k) numbers the same with the company's, then you place these numbers in the place where they should be in the order of your chooce numbers, the last, you should chooce the other numbers.   
So the total probabilty is `A[m,n]*C[n,i]*A[n,i]*A[m-n,n-i]/(A[m,n]*A[m,n])`(i from k to n). Because you total have A[m,n] chances to chooce n numbers from m numbers, and the company has A[m,n] chances also, so the denominator is `A[m,n]*A[m,n]`, and the numerator is `A[m,n]*C[n,i]*A[n,i]*A[m-n,n-i]`, here, A[m,n] is the chance of the company choose m numbers from the total m numbers. C[n,i] is the chance of chooce the same numbers you and the company have, A[n,i] is the chance to reorder the i numbers into the n places which you should choose, A[m-n,n-i] is the last **m-n** numbers you should choose, so the numerator is `A[m,n]*C[n,i]*A[n,i]*A[m-n,n-i]`

###Reference###
[TopCoder-Analysis-SRM418](http://community.topcoder.com/tc?module=Static&d1=match_editorials&d2=srm418)